# Graphics Schema

## Introduction

A graphics schema allows the user to define graphical content using a schema to define the content and program.

There are several parts to this.  

1. schema  
1. parser
1. program
1. scene

You define the feature using a scene.  
Using the GraphicsParser you process the schema.  
The GraphicsParser does two things:

1. Create the graphics to display the content as defined in the schema.
1. Returns a program that developers can interact with to manipulate the scene.

## Basic schema parts

There are two required schema parts.

1. context
1. scene

### Context

The context defines properties for the canvas, camera and post processes.  
Common properties for the context object are:

1. type: "perspective" or "orthographic"
1. args: arguments used to manipulate the camera
1. postProcesses: define what post processing should take place after the image has been rendered.

```js
context: {
    type: "perspective",
    args: {
        background: "#e8e8e8",
        position: {
            z: 5
        },
        allow_drag: true
    },
    postProcesses: [
        {
            process: "fxaa",
            args: {
                // if a process needs args
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Allow Drag and Drop
If allow_drag is true, you will be able to drag and drop content on the x and y axis.  
When the parsing is complete the drag controls is set to all the visible mesh objects.  
If you add more mesh objects you will need to run the "updateDragMeshes" function on the program.  
This will query the scene for all the visible mesh and group objects and update the components allowed to be dragged.

### Scene

The scene is the entry point for the graphics to be rendered.  
A scene must contain an "elements" property.  
You can also define a "material" property but that is optional.

The "elements" property defines the scene elements.  
The "material" property defines what material to use on scene elements that don't have a material defined.  
Think of it as your default material for the scene.  
FYI, when defining layers you define the same, but we will look at that later.

```json
{
  "scene": {
    "id": "scene",
    "material": "red",
    "elements": [
      {
        "element": "flow-chart",
        "shape": "action",
        "args": {
          "transform": {
            "position": {
              "x": 3
            }
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "element": "flow-chart",
        "shape": "data"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Note how each scene element has an "element" property.  
This defines what type of scene object must be created and added to the scene.  
This must be one of the predefined supported element types.  
If you use a value other than the supported you will get an error, and the scene will not render correctly.


