# Graphics Schema

## Layers

Layers provide you a way to group information.  
The best way to think of it is layers in a graphical program like photoshop.  
Though threejs supports layers the way we deal with layers is to create a group per layer.  

## Defining layers

Layers are defined as a root level property on the schema object.

```json
{
  "layers": [
    {
      "id": 0,
      "title": "Layer 1",
      "elements": [
        {
          "element": "PlaneGeometry",
          ...
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

As you can see from the example above, the layers property is an array that contains a collection of layer objects.
Each layer object has three properties:

1. id - used to identify the layer
1. title - caption to use in UI to represent the layer
1. elements - collection of scne objects, works the same as the scene.

The result of this definition is will produce a threejs group with children.  

## Layer programming points

When you define a layer in the schema the program will be inflated with some methods and objects you can program against.

1. program._layers - this contains the layer definition defined in the schema
1. program._layerParser - used internally for processing a layer and build it's content when made visible.
1. program.setLayerVisibility - make a layer visible or invisible
1. program.toggleLayerVisibility - toggle the layer's visibility

setLayerVisibility requires two parameters:

1. id - id of layer in schema
1. visible - boolean indicating if the layer is visible or not.

## Processing of layers

Only visible layers are processed, and it's objects created.  
When you make a layer visible, and it has not yet been initialized, the layerParser is used internally to process the layer definition and create the relevant objects.

## User layers

This is a scene example that contains two visible layers.

```json
scene: {
    elements: [
        {
            id: "layer0",
            element: "layer",
            layer: 0
        },
        {
            id: "layer1",
            element: "layer",
            layer: 1
        }
    ]
}
```

You can define a layer in the layers object and not define it in the scene.  
In those cases the layer is available but not rendered from the start.  
If you want to show those layers, use the setLayerVisibility function.  
This allows you to show only what you want and load additional resources as and when you need it.  

## Program Layers Component

There is a web component that helps you deal with layer toggling.  

```html
<program-layers program.one-way="program"></program-layers>
```

The on thing you need to pass on to the component is the program generated during the schema processing.

This component provides a simple list of layers with a checkbox and label.  
Checking or unchecking the checkbox will show or hide the layer in your scene.  
You can use css to style and place this component where ever you want.

This component can be found in "src/gfx-program-components/program-layers"

