# Graphics Schema

## Introduction

Colors, materials and textures kind of go hand in hand.    
They all define properties of a mesh.  
This document will take a closer look at these three subjects in the schema.

All these are defined as properties on the root level of the schema object.  
They are referenced to via properties in other schema definitions so you must define an id for each one.

In all cases the items defined are stored on the program accordingly.

1. colors: program.colors
1. materials: program.materials
1. textures: program.textures

colors used in materials reference colors defined in the colors definition.  
textures used in materials references textures defined in the textures definition.  
all references are by id

### Colors

```json
{
  colors: [
    {
      id: "primary",
      color: "#ff0000"
    },
    {
      id: "secondary",
      color: "#0000ff"
    }
  ]  
}
```

Colors define in the schema in this way is attached to the program on a colors object.  
Each color id is used as a property on the colors object.  
The above example would thus be present as 

```js
const pclr = program.colors.primary;
const pclr = program.colors.secondary;
```

Though you define the colors using hexadecimal the property value is actually a threejs Color object.
The program also gets an additional method called setColor that you can use to change a color.
The setColor method takes two parameters:

1. id - the color id as defined in the schema
1. value - hex string value defining the color. e.g. "#ffbb00"

setColor will replace the existing color object with a new one for that color.  
If a color by that id does not exist that property will be added to the colors object.
For example: 

```js
program.setColor("newColor", "#ff0090");
// will result in
const nclr = program.colors.newColor;
```

### Materials

In colors, a color is a color, this is not true when it comes to materials.  
The schema supports a number of different materials.  
For simplicity’s sake we keep the type property the same as the class name in threejs.

Supported material types are:

1. MeshBasicMaterial
1. LineBasicMaterial
1. LineDashedMaterial
1. MeshPhongMaterial
1. MeshPhysicalMaterial
1. MeshStandardMaterial
1. MeshNormalMaterial
1. PointsMaterial
1. RawShaderMaterial
1. ShaderMaterial
1. ShadowMaterial
1. SpriteMaterial

If you want to use materials other than this, you will need to add it to the dynamic module loader.  
See that section for more details.

For each material you can set custom properties on that material using the args property.

```js
{
    id: "red",
    type: "MeshBasicMaterial",
    args: {
        color: "red"
    }
}
```

Properties on the args object correlate to properties on the material.
Color properties as seen in the above example reference color objects that are defined in the colors section.

The RawShaderMaterial however has it's own provider that takes care of some lifting for you.
This material supports a couple spesific properties in the args object:

1. glslVersion - defaults to "GLSL1"
1. vertexShader - path to file - will load the file's content for use.   
   If not defined it will load a default vertex shader for you   
   ("src\gfx-providers\providers\materials\default-vertex-shader.js").
1. fragmentShader - path to file - will load the file's content for you.
1. uniforms
1. defines
1. transparent - defaults to false
1. opacity - defaults to 1.0

See "src\gfx-providers\providers\materials\default-vertex-shader.js" for what threejs defaults are loaded automatically

```json
{
    "materials": [
        {
            "id": "red",
            "type": "MeshBasicMaterial",
            "args": {
                "color": "red"
            }
        },
        {
            "id": "blue",
            "type": "RawShaderMaterial",
            "args": {
                "transparent": true,
                "fragmentShader": "/shaders/msdf.frag",
                "uniforms": {
                    "map": {type: "t", value: "font"},
                    "fill": {value: "#ff0090"},
                    "stroke": {value: "#000000"},
                    "strokeWidth": {value: 2},
                    "distanceFactor": {value:3}
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

As you can see by the above example, we try and stay close to the threejs version so that there is a close correlation between the schema you define and what it does.
If you look at the uniform "map" you will notice it uses the type of "t" indicating that it's a texture.  
The value used, "font" is the texture id in the textures section. See below for an example on that texture.

## Textures

Texture definitions create threejs "Texture" objects.  
The definition is fairly simple:

```json
{
    "textures": [
        {
            "id": "font",
            "texture": "/fonts/open-sans/OpenSans-Regular.png"
        }
    ]
}
```
